[Music]
what if you stopped sleeping for a week
sleep
what a sweet word how often you just
can't get enough of it
people spend almost half of their lives
in this steak sleep is as fundamental as
the Sun appearing in the sky in the
morning but have you ever thought what
would happen if you stopped wasting time
on this process you would surely have a
lot of free time for learning something
new doing sports working or just hanging
out with friends sounds cool but let's
have a look at the consequences of never
sleeping again after one day without
sleep this may seem weird but after 24
hours without sleep you'll start to feel
happy and elated almost any joke however
stupid will be able to crack you up and
you will find funny some really strange
things you will seem to radiate
giddiness and positivity the cherry on
the cake will be your increased sex
drive sounds amazing and not like
something you would expect from a lack
of sleep right the reason for these
strange feelings lies in the fact that
your brain increases dopamine levels
trying to compensate for your lack of
sleep however closer to the end of the
day this happy mood is evaporating you
start to have problems with memory
suffer from the increased reaction time
and people around you may believe that
you're drunk it will become extremely
tough to plan something or evaluate your
own decisions what's more your behavior
will get more impulsive it's strictly
not recommended to drive in such a state
as it may turn extremely dangerous when
you're sleep-deprived
after two days without sleep as soon as
the second day without deep sleep starts
you will have some important physical
functions getting shut by your body for
example its ability to metabolize
glucose will be lost as a result your
body will have less and less energy and
you will begin to look pale and a bit
ill what is even worse your immune
system will start to let you down
becoming less efficient this means it
will be a lot easier to contract the flu
or other infection let alone a common
cold
also weakening of the immune system may
result in some kind of a rash and that's
not all your judgment will also get
impaired the feeling of nausea will
follow you wherever you go
another unpleasant surprise for you may
become stumbling and slurred speech by
this moment everybody around you will be
100% sure that you regularly drink
yourself almost death after 3 days
without sleep all the fun will start on
the 3rd day you will start to
hallucinate although this may begin a
little earlier your hallucinations may
be either auditory or visual and include
all kinds of weird things as your dreams
will infiltrate your waking hours your
body will be desperately trying to
rationalize the feelings it's
experiencing for the most part this is
the result of the lack of REM sleep REM
sleep phase is the period starting which
you're asleep but your brain is still
active that's exactly when you start to
dream scientists are still arguing why
people need REM sleep but it's known for
sure that even if you had a regular
sleep pattern with only REM phase
missing you would still die in addition
the effects of the absence of sleep will
be getting worse and worse and after a
short time the body will begin to shut
down this means that after three
sleepless days you'll be unable to
function or communicate
normally well the question arises how
long is it possible to survive without
sleep the maximum recorded time was
approximately 264 hours
that's about 11 days after that the body
shuts down completely which leads to
death however if you manage to fall
asleep on the 11th day shockingly
there won't be any long-term health
effects this means that after a good and
quality sleep lasting about 12 hours you
will be perfectly fine
this doesn't refer to people who suffer
from fatal familial insomnia such
patients can survive for a maximum of
about a year and a half
provided their condition was worsening
gradually and they still managed to
sleep from time to time for the first
several months of the disease as the
illness worsens such symptoms as
dementia appear this disease is genetic
and inherited and occurs due to a Mis
shape and protein in the brain there are
only 27 families in the world with five
of them in the u.s. that can carry the
gene so the disease is extremely rare
but making an appearance once it takes
away people's lives anyway
chances are so extremely low that the
insomnia you may suffer from is the
result of this fatal disease that we may
not even take this into consideration
this means that if you have problems
with sleep you can successfully win the
battle for quality rest here are several
recommendations how to fall asleep more
easily first of all figure out your
favorite sleeping position if you're a
stomach sleeper try putting a pillow not
onto your head but under your hips this
will help you to avoid pains and aches
in the morning if your preferred
position is on your side position a
pillow between your legs so that your
hips are supported if you can't fall
asleep other than on your back place a
pillow under your legs this will provide
you with some additional comfort before
going to bed enjoy a nice warm shower
or a bath with eucalyptus or lavender
bath salt this will relax you and later
after you cool down it will be easier
for you to fall asleep sleep in the nude
this will help your body to regulate its
temperature choose a blanket or a sheet
according to the temperature of the room
being on the cool side is always
preferable so don't forget to put an
additional blanket nearby in case you
feel cold at night if you can't imagine
your life without pajamas or even the
idea of sleeping naked makes your skin
crawl
choose loose cotton pajamas as they
breathe better than the ones made from
other fabrics pay attention to the
pillow you use that's not as simple as
it may seem if your pillow is too flat
your head may tilt backward and this
will cause you some discomfort if the
pillow is on the contrary too thick your
head may end up being propped at an
uncomfortable angle which can lead to
all kinds of aches and pains start to
control the light you're exposed to a
couple of hours before you go to bed the
thing is that bright light is likely to
disrupt your internal clock and it's
this internal instrument that regulates
your sleeping and waking time so turn
off or dim bright lights in your home
don't watch TV or use your tablet a
minimum of two hours before you sleep if
you need to use your gadgets install
special applications which prevent blue
light from disturbing your sleep also
make sure that your bedroom is devoid of
all sources of light they might be
windows with open curtains LED clocks
lights and your electronic devices and
so on if you can't get rid of all the
lighting sources wear a sleeping mask
you may try to add some gentle sounds
there's a device that creates white
noise
soothing sounds of wind surf or steam
these sounds don't have any shape but
help you stay in the present don't eat
before going to bed try to do this a
minimum of three hours before sleeping
and remember that a full stomach and a
heavy meal can disrupt your sleep and
provoke nightmares spicy and greasy
foods are also a special
back at the same time it's not a good
idea to go to bed feeling hungry this
unpleasant nagging sensation in your
stomach won't let you fall asleep
whatever you do never experiment with
your sleep this is an important
fundamental part of your life and not
something to be taken lightly what was
the longest you ever went without
sleeping how did it make you feel tell
us in the comments below share this
video with those of your friends who
like to spend long nights playing
computer games saying that sleep is
overrated hit the like button and
subscribe to our Channel there's always
something interesting on the bright side
[Music]
you